---
layout:     post   				    # 使用的布局（不需要改）
title:      Rethink the Roles of the FDA in Off-label Cancer Drug Use				# 标题 
subtitle:   Original Research #副标题
date:       2020-01-08 				# 时间
author:     En Cheng 						# 作者
header-img: img/FDA.jpg 	#这篇文章标题背景图片
catalog: true 						# 是否归档
tags:	-FDA
      -Oncology         #标签
---

## Rethink the Roles of the FDA in Off-label Cancer Drug Use
> En Cheng,<sup>1</sup> MD, MSPH

> <sup>1</sup> Department of Chronic Disease Epidemiology, Yale School of Public Health, New Haven, CT, 06511

The history of the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) can be traced back to the foundation of the Agricultural Division of Patent Office in 1848, and the passage of the 1906 Pure Food and Drug Act marked the formal establishment of the FDA as a federal consumer protection agency.<sup>1</sup>  The FDA functions to prevent unproven and unsafe products from entry into the market, and particularly for approval of prescription drugs, the FDA requires substantial evidence (i.e., adequate and well-controlled investigations, including clinical investigations) of efficacy and safety for specific clinical indications.<sup>2</sup> Although approval is for specific indications, the FDA has a limited role in the use of the drugs in clinical practice. Physicians can prescribe the drugs for other indications not approved by FDA, also described as “off-label” use. 

Off-label use is widely practiced, especially in cancer treatment, and in some circumstances, it may be considered the standard of care (for example, effective drugs are not tested in pediatric cancer patients, or effective approved drugs are very scare).<sup>3</sup> The existence of off-label use is based on the assumption that the FDA should not regulate the practice of medicine, and clinicians can rely on their knowledge and experience to decide the use of approved drugs.<sup>4</sup> However, high spending on off-label cancer drugs, limited supporting evidence for the majority of off-label uses, and unexpected adverse drug events raise concerns about poor off-label regulations of cancer drug.<sup>5,6</sup> Since there are contradictory expectations from different groups (including cancer patients, physicians, pharmaceutical companies, and healthcare payers), the FDA should play a stronger role in balancing these expectations . 

# History of FDA’s Regulation of Off-label Cancer  Drugs
In the past, FDA mainly regulated off-label use, regardless of cancer-relevant or not , by prohibiting off-label manufacturer promotion because drugs can be characterized as “misbranded” if promoted for uses not described in approved labelling.<sup>7</sup> Under the FDA Modernization Act of 1997,<sup>8</sup> the pharmaceutical company can 1) support certain continuing medical education (CME) that discussed off-label uses, 2) disseminate reprints of peer-reviewed medical journals articles discussing off-label use if a relevant supplementary new drug application (sNDA) is being prepared, 3) respond if requested about off-label use, and 4) can discuss economic information with payors and formulary committees. The provisions  of sNDA expired in September 2006 since laws forbade promotions of a drug for unapproved uses, but in 2009, FDA proposed guidelines enabling sponsors to distribute publications about reprints about off-label uses. In US v. Caronia (2012), the Federal  confirmed pharmaceutical off-label promotion as the commercial free speech rights of pharmaceutical manufacturers if they deliver truthful and non-misleading information about FDA-approved products.<sup>9</sup> As a result, FDA may be less likely to challenge manufacturer promotion only if promotion may be deemed false and misleading. Later FDA proposed several off-label guidelines,<sup>10,11</sup> including “Responding to Unsolicited Requests for Off-Label Information About Prescription Drugs and Medical Devices”, and “Drug and Device Manufacturer Communications With Payors, Formulary Committees, and Similar Entities – Questions and Answers”, etc. However, in 2015 a federal judge ruled against the FDA’s restrictions on off-label drug promotion by proclaiming such restrictions in violation of the First Amendment,<sup>12</sup> an evidence of an erosion of the authority of FDA to warrant safety and efficacy of drugs. After these events, worries of the public intensify  since off-label marketing with distribution of questionable  publications can easily be disguised as science, and FDA seems to have much less control.

# Why is it Important to Regulate Off-label Cancer Drugs?
Cancer, the second leading causes of death,<sup>13</sup> is an increasing public health threat to the United States, and over 1.7 million new cancer cases are projected to occur in 2019.<sup>14</sup> Thus, there is huge demand for cancer drugs, and just in 2018 the FDA approved 19 new cancer drugs, accounting for 32.2% of the 59 novel drugs approved in that year.<sup>15</sup> The spending on cancer drugs rose $15 billion in 5 years, from $26.9 billion in 2011 to $42.1 billion in 2016.<sup>16</sup> The estimated financial burden of cancer treatment would be $20,000 to $30,000 a year  per patient, nearly half of the average household income.<sup>17</sup> Since cancer is common and treatment is becoming increasingly expensive, further regulations and investigations into off-label cancer drug use should draw more attentions based on high prevalence (20-30%)<sup>5,18</sup> of off-label use in cancer clinical practice. Despite high expenditures in prescription and common off-label use, 73% of off-label cancer medications lacked evidence of clinical efficacy and findings suggest that off-label use is associated with adverse drug events.<sup>5,6,19</sup>

Thus, high spending on off-label cancer drugs, limited supporting evidence in the majority of off-label uses, and adverse drug events are three important aspects that the FDA should address and/or collaborate with other agencies to address, rather than simply limiting promotions of off-label cancer drug use.  

# The Role of FDA in Lowering Spending of Off-label Cancer Drug Use
One proposed approach to lower off-label spending in cancer drug is to enforce the collaborations of the FDA with the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) to control expensive and potentially risky off-label cancer drugs, which are principally biotechnology drugs.<sup>20</sup> These drugs often cost more than $12,000 per year and have high chances of triggering a safety-related regulatory action (for example, black box warning) within 10 years of their introduction to the market.<sup>20,21</sup> To reduce unnecessary and potentially harmful biotechnology drugs use, we could borrow the experience of CMS in limiting the device use: the CMS will not automatically reimburse the prescription of FDA-approved safe and effective devices only if it is reasonable and necessary according to National Coverage Determination process.<sup>22</sup> The FDA and the CMS could collaborate to mandate a similar process for the biotechnology drugs whose costs are similar to a typical device, such as a cardiac pacemaker (the average reimbursement is $12,000). Any biotechnology drug that reaches $12,000/year or $1,000/month automatically trigger the analysis process as the device to determine whether it is reasonable and necessary . This may also encourage other insurance companies follow this approach because they generally cover biotechnology drugs use regardless of on-label or off-label use. Thus, it may help lower spending of off-label cancer drug use, and also relieves the concerns of the public about potential adverse effects of off-label use. 

There  is a tremendous debate in the United States whether to directly regulate prescription drug prices. Obviously the spending on off-label cancer drug use will decrease if the FDA and the federal government could work together to successfully negotiate the cancer drug prices with pharmaceutical companies, or directly import generics from well-regulated markets (for instance, Canada, the European Union, etc.) to make more effective competition in the  market.<sup>23,24</sup> However, currently regulating drug prices directly may not be feasible . Although one of the primary roles of the FDA is drug approval instead of controlling the drug price or spending, FDA should bear the responsibility of lowering drug spending to some extent in collaborating with other agencies. Particularly for high spending of off-label cancer drug use, FDA should play more roles. 

# The FDA’s Role in Regulating Off-label Cancer Drug Use Without Solid Evidence
The compendia including American Medical Association Drug Evaluations (AMA-DE), United States Pharmacopoeia-Drug Information (USP-DI) or its successor publication [amended in Section 6001 (f)(1) of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005] and American Hospital Formulary Service-Drug Information (AHFS-DI)  are recognized authoritative sources to determine whether off-label use of drugs and biologicals are of “medically-accepted indication” in an anticancer chemotherapeutic regimen.<sup>25</sup> However, after looking into several commonly used drug compendia, one systemic review suggest that compendia support off-label cancer drug use with limited available evidence (neither the most recent nor of highest methodological quality) compared with the standards supporting FDA-approved drugs.4 There were substantial limitations in the level, quantity, consistency, and timeliness of evidence for off-label cancer drug use. In addition, update schedules of these compendia varied, and documentation practices make it challenging to decide whether and when the contents of compendia should be updated. Since oncologists rely on compendia for the latest access to evidence and reimbursement information for off-label indications, FDA should collaborate with the organizations who develop these compendia (including American Medical Association (AMA), United States Pharmacopeial Convention, and American Society of Health-System Pharmacists) to ensure more accurate off-label information and bridge the gap between the patients’ need and the off-label use . 

Also, FDA could provide oncologists with more CME programs in off-label cancer drug  use. The Training and Continuing Education (https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education) portal provides educational programs and training opportunities for health professional, industry, consumers, and academia.<sup>26</sup> The FDA should encourage oncologists to take full advantage of this rich resource, and keep them updated about the latest progress about efficacy and safety of off-label cancer drug use. For example, recently the FDA, in collaboration with the AMA, announced CME videos to help American physicians combat spread of foodborne illness.<sup>27</sup> For cancer drug use, the FDA, together with other organizations, could also replicate the experience to produce more CME videos to help oncologists updated with off-label cancer drug use.

# The Role of FDA in Controlling Adverse Drug Events of Off-label Cancer Drug Use 
Safety of the cancer patients is a critical concern when prescribing off-label drug. If clinical evidence is limited, adverse drug events could be side effects with little or no therapeutic activity,<sup>3</sup> and previous findings supported associations of off-label use with adverse drug events.<sup>6</sup> Although the FDA requires no explicit consent for any off-label drug use, there is consistent discussion whether the consent forms should be mandatory, particularly for vulnerable cancer patients.<sup>28</sup> It will make competent cancer patients aware of and understand the intended therapy benefits and potential adverse drug events to decide whether to take the off-label drug.<sup>29</sup> However, this suggestion was criticized as an evidence of FDA trying to regulate the practice of medicine and confusing patients’ decision making by diverting their attentions to medically irrelevant information.<sup>29</sup> A recent survey suggested that 94% of Americans don’t recall ever being told that they were being given a drug on-label or off-label, and 63% of Americans would not take the prescribed medications from their doctors if the prescribed FDA-approved drugs are not for their specific conditions.<sup>30</sup> This may partly explain why oncologists do not welcome informed consent for off-label cancer drug use: patients may be very likely to reject off-label use once informed . Nonetheless, there is lack of research for off-label use, which should be considered potential risk; thus, clinicians are legally bound to inform risk and should follow legal standards “obtain informed consent from a person before performing a test or stating a treatment - particularly a treatment that involves some uncertainty”.<sup>29</sup> Thus, FDA should make informed consent of off-label cancer drug use mandatory . It will help protect cancer patients’ autonomy, educate them about alternatives and risks, and lead to improved health care decisions in the long term.<sup>31</sup> 

To address the adverse events of medical products, not limited to cancer drugs, the FDA launched the Sentinel Initiative under the FDA Amendments Act (FDAAA) of 2007.<sup>32</sup> It is the FDA’s national electronic system transforming the way investigators monitor the safety of FDA-regulated medical products, including drugs, vaccines, biologics, and medical devices.<sup>32</sup> Besides, health professionals and patients could submit adverse event reports via the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS). If potential safety concern is identified via FAERS, the FDA will start further evaluations by conducting studies using data in the Sentinel System and take regulation actions, for example, to update drug labels and restrict the drug use.<sup>33</sup> However, it will be very hard and time-consuming to establish the cause inference between the off-label cancer drug use and its adverse events if no off-label relevant information is reported. Given 94% of American not being informed of off-label drug use,<sup>30</sup> even if cancer patients report the adverse events, the side effects may be deemed as a result of FDA-approved drug indications unless the condition of being prescribed off-label is reported simultaneously. It may likewise apply to the reports from health professionals. Thus, FDA should make the off-label use section mandatory in reporting adverse effects, which may better control adverse drug events of off-label cancer drug use.  

# Alternative Role of FDA in Regulating Off-label Promotion in Cancer Drugs
Although current judicial decision supported off-label promotion as commercial speech being protected by the First Amendment,<sup>12</sup> FDA could still regulate off-label promotion by further investigation into sponsor-distributed literature, which is an extremely important way of off-label promotion to clinicians and patients. Peer-reviewed literature serves as the gold standard for evidence-based medicine, but pharmaceutical companies may purposely select publication of positive studies, and concealing negative or questionable data.<sup>34,35</sup> Particularly the sponsors’ decision not to publish null or unfavorable findings, for off-label indications not reviewed by FDA, will introduce a critically undetectable bias into the published literature. The “ghost management” to control and influence every step in research, analysis, writing, and dissemination of publications sponsored by pharmaceutical companies or their agents will exclude the public from seeing any unfavorable findings.<sup>36</sup> Since peer-reviewed literature sponsored by pharmaceutical companies may not represent high-quality off-label use in cancer drugs, the FDA should encourage oncologists report to their concerns via the FDA website or other sources when they read relevant studies sponsored by pharmaceutical industry. Furthermore, in sNDA, the FDA should state clearly and make mandatory that the pharmaceutical companies cannot hide any null or unfavorable findings, and this action will be considered “misleading labelling” although not physically labeled.  

Pharmaceutical companies view the victory of Amarin  in off-promotion as the right of free-speech while some critics claim it eroded the regulatory authority of the FDA.<sup>37</sup> However, it does not necessarily mean that the FDA could not take it back through the legislative process of Congress. Frankly, this ruling in Amarin, joined with the Second Circuit’s decision in Caronia, seems to foreclose the FDA from prohibiting truthful and non-misleading off-label promotion of pharmaceutical companies. We should notice that this precedent has only been established in the Second Circuit to date and there remains considerable uncertainty as to how sister Circuits would rule if encountering the same set of facts.<sup>38</sup> Thus, it may still be possible to regain the lost authority by legislation and further lawsuits.   

In conclusion, the off-label cancer drug use contributes to increasing health care expenditures, and subjects patients to limited clinical benefits with non-negligible adverse events. The roles of the FDA in regulating off-label cancer drug use have been consistently challenged by lawsuits and commercial promotion of pharmaceutical companies; however, the FDA should never retreat from the fundamental percepts of Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDCA),  which requires substantial evidence for safety and efficacy for every intended use of drugs.<sup>39</sup> Instead of simply prohibiting off-label cancer drug promotion, we propose that FDA should play more roles in reducing off-label spending in cancer drug use by collaborating with other agencies and organizations to 1) reduce unnecessary biotechnology drugs, 2) negotiate drug prices, and 3) import generics from well-regulated markets. Additionally, participation in updating drug compendia and providing CME could help the FDA regulate off-label cancer drug prescription without solid evidence. To control the adverse drug events of off-label cancer drug use, the FDA could consider alternative options such as mandating informed consent in off-label prescription and encouraging disclosure of off-label use in the FAERS. Although now the FDA may be more cautious in challenging off-label promotion, not just of cancer drugs, the FDA could do more in investigating sponsor-distributed literature for off-label promotion, and further regulate it via legislation. 


# References
1.	FDA. When and why was FDA formed? https://www.fda.gov/about-fda/fda-basics/when-and-why-was-fda-formed [Accessed by Dec 14, 2019].
2.	FDA. Guidance for Industry Providing Clinical Evidence of Effectiveness for Human Drugs and Biological Products. https://www.fda.gov/media/71655/download. [Accessed by Dec 14, 2019].
3.	Leveque D. Off-label use of anticancer drugs. The lancet oncology 2008;9:1102-7.
4.	Abernethy AP, Raman G, Balk EM, et al. Systematic review: reliability of compendia methods for off-label oncology indications. Ann Intern Med 2009;150:336-43.
5.	Conti RM, Bernstein AC, Villaflor VM, Schilsky RL, Rosenthal MB, Bach PB. Prevalence of Off-Label Use and Spending in 2010 Among Patent-Protected Chemotherapies in a Population-Based Cohort of Medical Oncologists. J Clin Oncol 2013;31:1134-9.
6.	Eguale T, Buckeridge DL, Verma A, et al. Association of Off-label Drug Use and Adverse Drug Events in an Adult Population. Jama Intern Med 2016;176:55-63.
7.	FDA. Labeling Requirements - Misbranding. https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/general-device-labeling-requirements/labeling-requirements-misbranding. [Accessed by Dec 14, 2019].
8.	FDA. Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act of 1997. https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/PLAW-105publ115/pdf/PLAW-105publ115.pdf. [Accessed by Dec 14, 2019].
9.	Scheineson MJ, Cuevas G. United States v. Caronia: The increasing strength of commercial free speech and potential new emphasis on classifying off-label promotion as "false and misleading". Food Drug Law J 2013;68:201-16, iii.
10.	FDA. Drug and Device Manufacturer Communications With Payors, Formulary Committees, and Similar Entities – Questions and Answers. https://www.fda.gov/regulatory-information/search-fda-guidance-documents/drug-and-device-manufacturer-communications-payors-formulary-committees-and-similar-entities. [Accessed by Dec 14, 2019].
11.	FDA. Responding to Unsolicited Requests for Off-Label Information About Prescription Drugs and Medical Devices. https://www.fda.gov/regulatory-information/search-fda-guidance-documents/responding-unsolicited-requests-label-information-about-prescription-drugs-and-medical-devices. [Accessed by Dec 14, 2019].
12.	Johnson CY. FDA barred from restricting company’s promotion of fish-oil drug. https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2015/08/07/fda-barred-from-restricting-companys-promotion-of-fish-oil-drug/. [Accessed by Dec 16, 2019].
13.	CDC. Leading Causes of Death. https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/fastats/leading-causes-of-death.htm. [Accessed by Dec 16, 2019].
14.	Siegel RL, Miller KD, Jemal A. Cancer statistics, 2019. CA Cancer J Clin 2019;69:7-34.
15.	Blumenthal GM, Pazdur R. Approvals in 2018: a histology-agnostic new molecular entity, novel end points and real-time review. Nat Rev Clin Oncol 2019;16:139-41.
16.	Hong SJ, Li EC, Matusiak LM, Schumock GT. Spending on Antineoplastic Agents in the United States, 2011 to 2016. J Oncol Pract 2018:JOP1800069.
17.	Kantarjian H, Steensma D, Rius Sanjuan J, Elshaug A, Light D. High cancer drug prices in the United States: reasons and proposed solutions. J Oncol Pract 2014;10:e208-11.
18.	Radley DC, Finkelstein SN, Stafford RS. Off-label prescribing among office-based physicians. Arch Intern Med 2006;166:1021-6.
19.	Good CB, Gellad WF. Off-label Drug Use and Adverse Drug Events Turning up the Heat on Off-label Prescribing. Jama Intern Med 2016;176:63-4.
20.	Gillick MR. Controlling Off-Label Medication Use. Annals of Internal Medicine 2009;150:344-7.
21.	Giezen TJ, Mantel-Teeuwisse AK, Straus SMJM, Schellekens H, Leufkens HGM, Egberts ACG. Safety-related regulatory actions for biologicals approved in the United States and the European Union. Jama-J Am Med Assoc 2008;300:1887-96.
22.	Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. Medicare Coverage Determination Process. https://www.cms.gov/Medicare/Coverage/DeterminationProcess/index?redirect=/DeterminationProcess/. [Accessed by Dec 16, 2019].
23.	Langreth R. Drug Prices. https://www.bloomberg.com/quicktake/drug-prices. [Accessed by Dec 16, 2019].
24.	Edney CCA. Generic Drugs. https://www.bloomberg.com/quicktake/generic-drugs. [Accessed by Dec 16, 2019].
25.	Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. Compendia 1861 (t)(2) - Anti-cancer. https://www.cms.gov/Medicare/Coverage/CoverageGenInfo/compendia. [Accessed by Dec 16, 2019].
26.	FDA. Training and Continuing Education. https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education. [Accessed by Dec 16, 2019].
27.	AMA. AMA, FDA help America’s physicians combat spread of foodborne illness. https://www.ama-assn.org/press-center/press-releases/ama-fda-help-america-s-physicians-combat-spread-foodborne-illness. [Accessed by Dec 16, 2019].
28.	Mithani. Z. Informed Consent for Off-Label Use of Prescription Medications. https://journalofethics.ama-assn.org/article/informed-consent-label-use-prescription-medications/2012-07. [Accessed by Dec 16, 2019].
29.	Veatch RM. A theory of medical ethics. 1981.
30.	Robertson C. National Survey Suggests that Off-Label Status is Material to Informed Consent. https://blog.petrieflom.law.harvard.edu/2017/01/25/national-survey-suggests-that-off-label-status-is-material-to-informed-consent/. [Accessed by Dec 16, 2019].
31.	Wilkes M, Johns M. Informed consent and shared decision-making: a requirement to disclose to patients off-label prescriptions. PLoS Med 2008;5:e223.
32.	FDA. FDA's Sentinel Initiative. https://www.fda.gov/safety/fdas-sentinel-initiative. [Accessed by Dec 16, 2019].
33.	FDA. Questions and Answers on FDA's Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) https://wwwfdagov/drugs/surveillance/questions-and-answers-fdas-adverse-event-reporting-system-faers [Accessed by Dec 16, 2019].
34.	Psaty BM, Ray W. FDA guidance on off-label promotion and the state of the literature from sponsors. JAMA 2008;299:1949-51.
35.	Turner EH, Matthews AM, Linardatos E, Tell RA, Rosenthal R. Selective publication of antidepressant trials and its influence on apparent efficacy. N Engl J Med 2008;358:252-60.
36.	Sismondo S. Ghost management: how much of the medical literature is shaped behind the scenes by the pharmaceutical industry? PLoS medicine 2007;4:e286.
37.	Mackey TK, Liang BA. After Amarin v FDA: What Will the Future Hold for Off-label Promotion Regulation? Mayo Clin Proc 2016;91:701-6.
38.	Gibbons DC. A Victory for Amarin Further Erodes FDA Regulation of Off-label Promotion. http://www.fdalawblog.net/2015/08/a-victory-for-amarin-further-erodes-fda-regulation-of-off-label-promotion/. [Accessed by Dec 17, 2019].
39.	Robertson C, Kesselheim AS. Regulating Off-Label Promotion - A Critical Test. New Engl J Med 2016;375:2313-5.

